foreign
just woke up and it was me again at one
point during the weekend I know I was a
seal and everybody always says oh we
can't relate to what you've gone through
but everybody has trauma life's hard
sometimes right Life's good the life's
hard everybody deals with trauma no
matter what welcome to the art of
accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease I'm Brett
Kistler here today with my co-host Joe
Hudson
[Music]
thank you
so will is a he's a retired Navy SEAL
who I met in a program that was working
with working with seals who had suffered
a traumatic brain injury and other
psychological traumas from from war and
from just anything else related to that
kind of a lifestyle
and uh will served in the U.S naval
special Warfare Development Group
as an operator and dog handler he was on
the bin Laden raid okay what is that
thing that you just made the special the
Opera oh that's me reading off of his
author uh
wait will what does that mean um yeah
Will what is that yeah basically still
Team Six okay all right that's like the
badasses of the badasses right like
that's like takes a lot to be a seal
alone and then you have to go through a
certain amount of
extra training to actually make it to be
selected to go there as well so it's
quite
quite the task yeah to say the least
yeah yeah and other other notable
information here you were on the bin
Laden raid with your dog Cairo who
joined you on hundreds of missions that
is correct I was the dog handler on the
bin Laden raid with Cairo yeah that's
what I wrote the book about an ordinary
dog yeah what kind of breed was it he
was a Belgian melon wall oh wow it's
kind of like a German Shepherd yeah fish
yes shorter hair a little more agile a
little a little smaller the shepherds
are like 100
120 pounds you know they get pretty big
yeah we skydive with them we fast rope
we gotta hoist them up walls we got to
carry them you know it's so having 120
pound Shepherd or the Mauser
60 it's a 70 you know they're a little
bit lighter shorter hair we work in hot
environments so you don't need these
dogs getting heat stroke just it's
beneficial wow do they have that kind of
sloped back like shorter hind leg thing
that the German Shepherds do yeah I
think the Shepherds have problems with
their hips
um I don't think Miles have that same
issue I could be wrong on that but now's
a little different breed I think they
have a little more energy I mean there's
nothing wrong with Shepherd shepherds
are really smart dogs and yeah they're
amazing but those miles they're really
athletic there's some there's some
monsters all right cool yeah okay that's
I'm sure not what we're talking about
today if you're a bad guy hiding they're
gonna find you they're gonna get to you
no matter what yeah they'll Die Trying
so let's see if we can make it through
the bio now right
was that it was that the whole bio I
mean there's more I mean he's also got a
silver star and a purple heart which I
think is definitely worth mentioning
the context in which we met is
interesting
um which was in working with veterans
who were who had suffered neurological
trauma and psychological trauma and
using various uh modalities and methods
to to work with them like will had told
me some of his story he had after I
think what was it 13 years
uh in the service you came out and
dropped into a really dark place which
is just very common for people who are
reintegrating to civilian life after
just a very very different lifestyle has
been very hard on their bodies and you
know their their spirit
and your journey back from this was just
incredibly profound for me because I
remember the first day that I met you
was like the first day after like a
treatment weekend you had been through
and it was at a social event and you
were kind of quiet and sort of hanging
in the corner and the friend who brought
you was like yeah this is his first time
at a social event since I've ever met
him and then I didn't see you until four
months later and you were helping run
this Retreat and it took me several days
hanging out with you to even recognize
that you were the same person
and you hear that I pulled yourself out
of this dark place and you had like made
a lot of progress you'd written your
book
so
you know in this time right now giving
some context on the the time of
recording right now we just had the
whole Russia invasion of Ukraine happen
a couple of days ago this is a very
different kind of interview than we have
done in the past and maybe this is
timely to bring bring some of this kind
of perspective in from somebody who's
been through
a lot of Darkness that isn't just the
kind of Darkness you might get as a CEO
running through out running
your Runway and trying to please
investors but a very different kind of
difficult experience and you've been
through it and you've integrated it and
so that's really what I'm here to what
I'm interested in talking with you about
today yeah no that's that's definitely I
was in a very dark place getting out of
the Navy I did 13 years you were correct
on that I was medically retired after 13
years I was um I joined the Navy right
after high school so I didn't have any I
worked with my father building cell
phone communication towers for a few
months and I left to join the Navy right
after high school just to spend some
time with them and
made it through buds no problem buds is
basic underwater demolition SEAL
training so that's the six seven month
selection process just to become a seal
I made it through that it was a
I go I grew up in Southeast Texas in a
trailer park in Southeast Texas it was a
nicer trailer park but it was still a
trailer park so I go from that couldn't
wait to get out of there there's not not
much around where I grew up unless you
like drinking your drugs so I had to get
out of the trailer park
and I show up to a beautiful beach in
Coronado California with a bunch of
great guys and basically just have to
get your nuts kicked in and you get to
stick around and it was all the things
that I wanted to do or was aspiring to
do we get to shoot guns and blow things
up and dive and you just have to get it
through this selection process and don't
get me wrong it was very hard
but it was I made some of the best
friends I've ever made in my life to
this day I mean even once I made it
through Buds and got to my team and
going to war with some people I I still
have those friends but that I made a
really tight group of friends and buds
made it through buds no issues
I went to Seal Team Four where I spent a
few years there I deployed to Iraq
and South America
after that I was selected to go to
Development Group I made it I squeaked
by made it through Development Group
that's a very
hard process it's like uh it's like
going through buds all over again for a
bunch of Navy SEALs so they already they
know you're not going to quit you've
already proven that you have what it
takes to be a seal so it's more
Performance Based it's all Performance
Based they still
beat you is what we call it make you do
runs and physical exercise until you're
almost dead but that's just the stressor
they put on you because you're not
they're not really going to shoot at you
or put you in a near-death situation so
the best they can do is scream at you
push the physical limits to the to the
most that they can and then put you in
these really hard circumstances where if
you're in the position to save a
American hostage or any hostage then you
can actually perform under pressure
basically if you have what it takes to
to think calmly and smoothly under the
most extreme circumstances basically in
I made it through that without too many
issues what was the check you learned
there
what was the way that you learned how to
I mean you might not even be able to
describe it but like
how to think calmly and smoothly as you
put it just that word smoothly is just
so brilliant as far as I'm concerned and
and how did you learn how to think
smoothly under intense pressure what was
the trick I'm assuming the same thing
you do when you're Wing suiting or
whatever you're under the life or death
situation just breathe and you go into
your happy place you get into the flow I
guess yeah nothing else really matters
um I remember even in buds you're
sitting in that ice cold water and they
want I mean they have tests to make sure
nobody's going to die but they push it
to the brink of hypothermia some guys do
get hypothermia so you're just sitting
locked arms in the surf with the waves
crashing over your head and
Coronado so that water is always chilly
and um same thing there it's not
physical but it's just
you're not doing anything you're just
laying there being cold but what I do I
go in my happy place and I would Breathe
and then just try to have anything else
that got all that stress related I would
still just breathe and just try to get
in the zone try to get in the flow and
just focus nothing else is important if
you stress out about it too much it's
just going to fall apart stressing out
never helps anybody right sounds like
one of the things you're doing is you're
getting out of your head and into your
body for that is that that's my
interpretation of what you just said how
am I wrong or right about that yeah
you're just not letting the outside
factors she's not letting that stress
get to you you just staying calm like if
you keep my heart rate
it's actually one of the things that you
just keep your heart rate nice and low
to where you can think still if you
freak out you're just going to fail
you're just going to get somebody killed
in the long run so if you can think yeah
I guess it's paying attention to your
body yeah cool something I'm really
curious about that this might be
skipping ahead a little bit but what you
just described is going through going
through Buds and then going through like
Team Six training
all of these things are something that
you had to have this I'm not going to
quit miss about you you had this grit
you had this drive you knew how to get
into flow you knew how to persevere
through it and then you went through
this period after the service where just
going back to civilian life all of that
seemed to crash and this seems to be
something that's just really interesting
for people who are really high
performers is that sometimes sometimes
we go through these periods of that
we've really got it got it together in
the sense that we are connected to
ourselves and we're in flow and then
sometimes we just feel like we've Fallen
entirely off the train and you've gone
there and then come back so I'm curious
what was it that if you had this this
flow that got you through the trainings
got you through 13 years with a service
what was it that switched off or what
was it that changed there's multiple
factors I went into it I think I I got
some brain injuries along the way I
poured alcohol on top of the brain
injuries loss of friends you know about
that it's it's very
pouring alcohol I mean I don't like to
use the word PTSD but I do miss a lot of
my friends that we lost and uh pouring
alcohol on top of that definitely does
not help so brain injury alcohol loss of
friends and just stop I stopped growing
as a person like once I got that's where
the ego comes into play like
I had made it to the Pinnacle I had
thought I had made it to the Pinnacle
and I just kind of started partying more
and drinking more and stopped caring as
much I guess about my personal growth
and I did see all my friends they were
doing multiple college courses they were
going to become team leaders of
basically bosses in our Command
they're like raising the family running
trips getting their black belt and Jiu
Jitsu or whatever you know they're
they're growing and I was just
drinking and living off of my past
accomplishments I guess I think that's
accumulation I don't think I felt like
the same person either but
I think the the brain injury definitely
had an effect or especially right after
I was blown up in 2012 by a hand grenade
in Afghanistan and after that
things weren't exactly the same I mean I
was
still able to function somewhat but my I
started getting migraines the memory
loss was really bad uh before when we
were talking about going through buds I
mean it was as 18 I was 17 when I left
for the Navy I didn't know I was getting
in the flow I was just doing whatever I
thought made sense and
you would have had to kill me to leave I
mean if my we had one guy in our class
was hip ball broke in half and there's
nothing he can do he was done like he
will never become a seal and if that was
my case then it is what it is it's not
in my hands it's you know it's in God's
hands
but I mean if I would have died if I
would have fallen off off the obstacle
course and broken my neck I would have
been completely content with it I just
there's no other place that I wanted to
be I wanted to be there and I was going
to give it 100 100 everything I had and
if I died along the way or something
that impeded me from making it that was
fine but I wasn't going I wasn't going
to quit
I just couldn't do it it's just not me
and there's nothing wrong with the guys
that did quit there's nothing wrong with
that we have guys that quit and come
back and complete it later we have guys
that job is not for everybody that's for
sure
but it was everything I wanted to do
there's nothing else I wanted to do with
my life I wasn't going to school I said
I'd go back to the trailer park and do
drugs but that didn't sound very fun to
me I'm good there's nothing else I want
to do I wasn't going to go to school
there's nothing no one didn't want to
become a doctor lawyer or anything you
know there's nothing that I I would have
failed at school there's just nothing
that I but being a seal that's all I
ever wanted you know I was going to give
it 100 so it sounds like when you
retired there was a like a major loss of
identity there oh dude that was my
family like I have my family back here
in Texas but that was
I care more about the people that I
serve with and some of my family members
not all of my family but I mean if just
as much as my family members I do care
about and there's some family members
that I haven't talked to and I don't
care to talk to you know so that was my
family that was my life that was me
so yeah going from
going from that I mean I got to be on
some of the coolest missions some of the
most well-known missions the uh I was on
the Captain Phillips raid I got to
partake in that
um I didn't take any of the shots or
anything but I still got to go on it and
I got to be on the Bin Laden Mission and
I got to the Pinnacle of my career so I
was up here and then going from that
suffering the brain injury and fast
forward a couple years after I got blown
up I was
moving back in with my parents and I
couldn't hold down a job I was drinking
myself to death I was 250 plus pounds
and I just I couldn't I couldn't wrap my
my brain and my mind around what was
going on because it was my mind that was
messed up to some extent I mean don't
get me wrong there's booze on top of
that and me feeling sorry for myself and
other factors but the brain injury was
definitely a big factor when
I remember sitting at my mom's house and
just I was drinking a lot and I remember
staring at the wall for like
an hour trying to figure out like what
what the [__] is going on like
I went from here and then all of a
sudden I'm
I'm in Rock Bottom I was just waiting to
die I was slowly drinking myself to
death and I had people that I cared
about and loved me in my life it's just
it was quite the fall I know the kind of
stress that you handled is so different
than say a CEO but there's this really
interesting study that they did where
they took all these CEOs and they put
them in a house
and they said the only thing you can't
do is work
and so then they took away the
phones and computers etc and so they
just had to hang out with each other and
then at day three they brought in a team
of psychologists and they said you
assess these folks and you just can't
talk about their work
and the team of psychologists came out
and they all said they're depressed
and they're like it's a house full of
depressed people
and it's something that I see all the
time with someone who's been like a
high-powered CEO over an extended period
of time when when that adrenaline
fatigue hits when there's no longer that
stimulus there's like this bottom that
they hit and I've seen some of them like
really successful guys who have done
crazy stuff in their life sit in their
pajamas for a couple years afterwards
just recovering yeah and they're so hard
on themselves because of that and then
that creates a secondary storm of just
self-abuse that or feelings are for
yourself as you put it definitely went
through that yeah it's higher than
finding purpose like what do I do now no
I can't do that job anymore yeah I gotta
find I was I'd go from high school with
nothing to that to some of the best guys
in the world
best times of my life I got I had a
pretty cool job at the time and then all
of a sudden I get blown up and my brain
doesn't work and I'm fired basically you
know like it's sort of a trifecta there
you got you you lose your you lose your
job which is something that your entire
being is identified with and then you
your family the the family that you
describe as being linked to that as well
as you know your brain injury just so
much of your
your internal resource that got you
through to where you were
somewhat over the course of 13 years of
of combat and then also
being blown up by a grenade
like all of this stuff dropping some now
I'm curious like what what was the
moment when it started to shift for you
at what point did you start to connect
to that resource again that
I'm imagining the same thing that got
you through training and through through
all those years but now
like reconnecting to it to pull you out
of that dark place that you were in I
think it was a slow progression out of
it was a slow progression in a slow
progression out it was um
I got out and I started just doing
trying to think of the first medical
things I went through the one that I I
went to the brain treatment the brain
treatment Foundation put me through a
program where I did the TMS treatment
which is transcranial magnetic
stimulation it's basically just trying
to get your brain to communicate
properly I don't know I'm gonna
not do it justice but it was a very good
brain Treatment Center that was not the
best thing I went through but I think it
was a good start I went I was in a
really bad place didn't do anything I
took my best friend reaching out and I
wasn't going to do anything he reached
out to me
he basically wasn't going to go to this
place unless I went with him which
convinced me to go with him and I'm
really glad
I feel like that was the first step and
then I started learning about the Wim
Hof method so I started doing breathing
and I started fasting I think my
hormones so you look at your blood
levels and testosterone I think there's
meditating and obviously diet sleep I
started getting better on my sleep uh
a couple of enthiogenic treatments
definitely helped so I think that was a
very beneficial for me to to go and
partake in I don't think it's a none of
these are
one thing that's just going to fix you I
think they all just kind of looking back
at it now they all just kind of lined up
together I started learning about I went
to the brain Treatment Center
I started learning about breathing and
got my diet better I dropped down from
250 pounds back to basically normal ish
and then just got my sleep good and then
I started doing all these other
treatments and just little by little
started to see progression and um
definitely
nowhere near where I want to be but I'm
still working towards that goal yeah
something I noticed that is uh there's
like a couple different levels of track
here one of them is the modalities that
you
um that you went through that you
explored to heal yourself and another
level is the mindset shifts that occur
and I noticed one that you just
mentioned where it was that your friend
was only going to go if you went with
him and that there was there was
something about doing it with your
friend that got you across the hump of
maybe some kind of learned helplessness
of like nothing's gonna work for me to
this can work for me and I noticed that
a lot of times is that the moment we've
actually started to believe that we can
that we can go through a process and
Trust the process and and transform and
grow and heal
that that actually is like the a major
point in shift and then the modalities
that we do the the methods that we
undertake are less important than that
internal shift
does that resonate with you definitely
I've been through so many
treatments getting out of the military
and they'd put me on
nothing against it I'd they did some
yoga treatments and they did a little
bit of
breathing and a little bit of diet and
everything else but
they also did the antidepressants and
the migraine medicines and a bunch of
the other meds and
I'd seen so many doctors and so many
therapists and this and that and a lot
of them were just full of [__] I just
was over it so when he reached out to me
I'm like dude I'm good man I'm just
gonna sit in my dark hole at my lake
house and
I'll be fine I'm just gonna drink it
away and then obviously that was not the
right answer so
I'm really glad he uh he told me that
because I remember just thinking like no
I'm not I wouldn't even get on a plane I
drove I drove to the treatment center in
California because I just wouldn't fly I
didn't want to be around people I wasn't
I was in a really bad place and nothing
I did not want to leave my house I just
wanted to stay there and drink and
seclude
so I was over I was overseeing all these
doctors I was over trying all these new
things I'm like what are you gonna do
give me some more
antidepressants like I'm good man
I had my alcohol I have a question for
you there's like a humility that you
have in your system right now
um and I'm wondering like when did that
show up like is that something that you
learned in sales training is that
something that's happened since the
kind of the Reconstruction of your life
I think I've always had that you always
go you have to be humble to be a seal I
got my ego get out of control there for
a few years and
I guess I really didn't even really
comprehend what my ego was there for a
while I mean by the time I got out I'm
only 37 now I was in
I was basically in my 20s early 30s at
the time and I didn't really
understand maybe what the ego was until
certain treatments really opened that up
for me and looking back on it man I'm
like man I was an [__] like I
understand I was a seal and I was a I
worked my ass off to get to where I was
and it was a very high position but
I did not let I did not need to let my
ego get out of control because I stopped
growing as a person I just thought it
was it was all good I had everything I
knew everything there's nothing else I
need to do I'm fine I'm here I made it
yeah and man that was a that was a hard
fall it was really it almost took my
life two parts of that that I want to
follow up on the first one is just
double click on that sentence you have
to be humble to be a CEO what can you
explain that what does that mean you
won't make it very far it's not a it's
not Delta Force where it's like Chuck
Norris where you're a one-man show I'm
kidding all the Delta guys will love
that it's teamwork you can't come it's
not I'm not Chuck Norris we're not going
to do everything by myself right it's uh
it's it's teamwork from day one that's
when you show up to buds you always have
a swim buddy you have a teammate and if
you are caught without that teammate
you get a safety violation enough safety
violations you go away so from day one
you always have a teammate
so
that's just your one teammate so when
you get to the team you have all of your
teammates it's about the team it's not
about you when you get done with
missions you
you take care of the team gear you take
care of your gear and then you take care
of yourself right it's always about the
team because you're not going to
accomplish accomplish the mission with a
team and if you're not humble you're
just going to go away so then then you
have this idea of the ego that comes in
later and then some level it seems like
that humility to make it through seals
is is a partial deterioration of the ego
but then somehow or another in your
definition of the ego it's like it
re-manifested is like I'm finished yeah
once I got to a certain level in my
career it's like I've made it through
buds I made it through this training I
made it through here I've been through
all these schools I've been on these
missions I've been yeah
yeah I see this all the time not just in
like career moves but you see that with
CEOs and they feel like they're finished
they're done like you you see their
progress slump if not deteriorate and
you see it with people who are like
looking after Awakening as well like
you're you're searching for like
Spiritual Awakening when they think
they're done you can see like the
corrosion that occurs and the best story
I have on this which I thought was
really cool was I was listening to like
one of the world's best cricket players
and uh I shake my head because I'm like
people watch crooked I don't know what
that's like but I like this guy and he
was talking
and he was talking he was basically
saying his career went like straight up
skyrocketed and then went straight down
then straight up again and somebody
asked him what was the difference
between the ups and the Downs he goes
when I was up I was thinking about how
do I improve myself
and when I'm down I was thinking about
how do I maintain I can totally relate
to that for sure and I look back at all
as I think about it all the time I'm
like man I remember on deployment
sitting in my room
and going out and looking and this guy's
doing college and this guy's reading
books and this guy's doing that and
I was not growing as a person and it
makes me
not the happiest looking back on what it
is that was that was what I needed to go
through at the time of my life I just I
don't know why but I needed to go
through that and now I'm feeling much
better so yeah so that's good yeah yeah
I'm getting back on for you could be
worse could have just drank myself to
death I almost died a few times so I'm
glad I'm still here you know you did the
brain treatment stuff your
electromagnetic stimulation
um breath stuff you had clicked over
into thinking okay this is possible
something got you so that you were like
okay this is possible again I I'm not
stuck and I and I don't have to believe
these doctors who don't know what
they're talking about so something
happened there but how do you see that
your mental and you talk a little bit
about
ego and and starting to recognize ego
and the part that it played how did the
transformation happen on a mental
internal psychological spiritual level
for you and on one of the treatment
weekends I went through it wasn't up to
me I had to let go of everything and
um it really opened my eyes
to some of my shortcomings and put me on
the right path to stop feeling sorry for
myself and to realize who I was again
also help me with my brain function
because I guess I just kind of I thought
I was giving up I was drinking myself to
death for sure but I wasn't sticking a
gun in my mouth which I
yeah
to basically kill myself slowly what's
an example of a reflection that you had
that
that shifted things for you that in in
this treatment weekend for example
something that came up to you from your
subconscious something that you
recognized and just the recognition of
which put you on the right path I kind
of just woke up and it was me again at
one point during the weekend I woke up
and it was me it wasn't life's hard I
mean I know it was a seal and everybody
always says oh we can't relate to what
you've gone through but everybody has
trauma life's hard sometimes all right
Life's good but life's hard everybody
deals with trauma no matter what you're
not going to get out of this without
dealing with death and hard times I
think so people can know what I'm
talking about I have the deaths of my
friends and brain injuries and blah blah
blah but everybody has their stuff
life's hard all that stuff on top of me
and all of a sudden I woke up during the
weekend and I had none of that I had no
ego I had no
now that burden on my shoulders I guess
I I kind of came to and it was me like
legit me like who I was before
I went through buds when I felt like the
18 year old me again like the the person
that was going to go through SEAL
training and nothing was going to happen
to me I was gonna [__] crush it
and I'd stop being that person
and when I woke up and I was that I had
that fire inside of me again like the
old me I was like nothing I was
Unstoppable like the Devil Himself could
have walked into that room right there
and I've been like we're good [__] you
bro like
we're good uh I just it was good to see
that person again so nothing was going
to stop me this is a story that I've
heard a lot in different contexts which
is basically there's a moment of
re-remembering but somehow or another
the journey was important and that the
integration of the old person that's
remembered is different than it was
before
generally it's like I I hear a lot of
times from people talking it's like oh
it was like I had this big Epiphany this
big Awakening and it was it was like I
was remembering who I was but at the
same time there's a difference that the
journey had integrated something
or shifted something at the same time as
remembering what I was how does that
resonate with Europe at all in the
remembering and recognition of who you
were was there also an integration of
something that the journey was important
yeah me waking up to realize who I was
again and who I could be again just
didn't realize I don't need to drink
anymore I don't need to feel sorry for
myself in certain aspects of my life
when
dealing with certain issues uh the
deaths of my friends I kind of not that
I don't miss them and I don't
mourn for them and feel bad you know
their families I know they miss them I'm
not trying to downgrade their loss at
all but I know they're in a better place
and I got to feel
at least what I think where they are and
I believe in God again
is a very eye-opening it was a someone I
grew I quit drinking my spiritual
beliefs are back I believe in God and I
pray every day now and I read the Bible
and
just put me on the right path it gave me
the opportunity to get back on the right
path
and see things that I just didn't I was
wasting my time and I was killing myself
with and seeing who I was again just
remembering
so yeah integrating that
New Path into the old me try to get back
there how has this integration affected
the way that you now look back on your
on your career and see and experience
those or just the way that you relate to
those experiences of losing friends and
of Taking Lives and having to make
really hard decisions that are
that involve lives yeah it's uh it's
kind of weird I think uh I wish I would
have found
that treatment before leaving the
military I think uh
I don't think I would have had to quit
my job possibly I mean I had some
memory issues and I still do but I
definitely don't have the migraines and
the stress I think it was I think the
migraines were a lot of
stress related so I definitely wish I
would have found that treatment a little
sooner
and now that I look back at it I just um
it's not at the same level it was it
definitely wears off a little bit after
a while you know no treatment is going
to last forever there's no fix-all but I
just try to remember that you know my
friends are in a better place
and then just to live my life to the
fullest because I know them very well if
they were to look at me now
or look at me what I was drinking myself
together they would call me a [__]
idiot like 100 I know my friends like
hey dude what are you doing like live
your life like stop doing this so I try
to remember that something that we talk
about a lot in uh in the podcast and the
work that we do is how our social
reality is a projection of ourselves and
if you've gone through an integration in
a journey where you found more empathy
for yourself I'm curious how that
impacts your empathy for others and also
going back to my previous question how
does that how does that empathy affect
the way that you relate to the enemy for
example or you know fighters on the
other side I think it would have taken
away a little bit of hate just looking
back I was just not that I've done
anything that I shouldn't have done
overseas but
once I lose so many friends they just
there's a lot of hate a lot of hate my
heart for sure and I think it would have
helped me deal with that much better
than
I'm really glad I wasn't put in search
in positions where I could have done
things if that makes any sense I uh I
had a lot of hate I didn't care anymore
after I lost so many friends I just
didn't give a [__] I just
yeah
never was put in a position to where I
look back now where I shouldn't have
done anything but there was a lot of
hate in my heart and I know that that
would have helped help me deal with that
for sure how would that have affected
you in in combat around missions it
would have been fine you're not we're
not over there to kill people who need
to be killed and when I started I didn't
care who died like if you if I even
think of my
we lost a helicopter Extortion 17
um it was a helicopter that was shot
down by a guy that we had captured and
let go
so I just stopped caring
nobody it wasn't worth losing any more
of my friends over
I didn't even care if I got in trouble
so I'm glad really glad I wasn't put in
certain positions because it's not the
right call sometimes
you definitely need to have that empathy
and still be a human being in a way what
you're saying here is that like
even in being a soldier having empathy
makes you a better Soldier than not
having empathy
and I think that's actually something
that non-soldiers don't get yeah we used
to hand out Kim lights to the kids even
if they threw them you know they don't
care they mostly hate us and that didn't
bother me but
towards the end I don't give a [__] I
don't care I'm not giving anything to
any of you and if you die I don't care
that is just my heart got really
hardened and uh now you're there I mean
I'm just good to be I'm happy to be kind
of the old person I am now like yeah
who cares give the Kim the kids Kim
lights and flags even if they'd hate you
who cares like you still need to be a
person like we're not them we're there
to make the world a better place not
just kill a bunch of bad guys
which I mean there's nothing wrong with
killing a bunch of bad people for some
reason that just needs to be done
sometimes yeah but that doesn't mean you
still can't care about other people that
are there as well yeah yeah and I didn't
care at all
right it seems like being in this career
and being in this position which is just
a really difficult position it's a
sticky moral position for almost anybody
and also I'm what I'm hearing from you
is that having more empathy having less
Hate in Your Heart impacted not only the
way that you could stay and flow in what
you were doing and also the ways that
you might be able to make a quick second
you know Split Second decision when you
might spot somebody at the end of a
rifle and have to quickly decide
whether or not to pull the trigger and
then also
in you know handing chem lights out to
kids and how are you going to
how are you going to uh interact with
you know civilians where you are and how
is that going to impact the
the relations in general how is that
going to either feed or ease some of the
tension that is that is inherent to the
situation which is a big deal if you
build those relationships and they'll
tell you where the bad guys are but if
you don't build those relationships then
they won't obviously there's no what's
the difference between you and the
Taliban like
so yes and getting into flow if I'm
if I'm just stuck in a thing of rage and
hate and anger it's I'm not going to
function nearly as as well as
not having to deal with any of that you
know you only have so much mental
bandwidth and if
50 of that is taken up by rage it's like
yeah you're not going to function nearly
as well just push all that stuff to the
side and just get into the flow and yeah
especially when that rage is the source
some of that unowned rage unprocessed
rage is the source of so much of the the
tension and the reason you're there yeah
my hair was falling out twice I mean
that was there was a lot of hate and a
lot of loss and sadness and I had
started losing big chunks in my my hairs
fell out and it was alopecia I said it
was hereditary or stress reduced or
stress related and it was right after
extortion went down so I lost some
friends there and then that was the
first time it happened and then I lost
one of my best friends his name was Nick
check
he died in a hostage Rescue Mission
saving a doctor American doctor and
after that my hair fell out again in
different places so it was not very not
a doctor but it was kind of easy to
figure out like yeah I think that's from
stress
and then after that man
once I start losing so many people just
the hardened my heart in your process of
integration how how did grief and moving
grief
play a part if at all I just drink drink
it away and stuffed it down no I mean
when you started the healing process
after the drinking after the brain
treatment that started you on the path
was there any movement of grief that had
to happen for you too
to open your heart again or was it was
it some other way that your heart opened
again I think it was a different way I
think it was just kind of realizing that
there is a God and there's a better
place and just kind of feeling that and
not that I don't miss them but I know
that they're in a good place right I
think that kind of helped me
helped me a lot but they lived a full
life they died doing what they wanted to
do so it does suck that they left behind
families and that they died young but
they died doing what they love so I'm
curious if if you had never been exposed
to the seals or there wasn't there
wasn't a military to go into
and with that same drive and that same
Spirit what would you have wanted to do
with it that's a good question I don't
know I have no idea where I would be
today
if I didn't join the military
I really had nothing else I wanted to do
I mean I'm sure I guess would have found
something
but I don't know if I would have had the
same drive I really don't know yeah what
are you doing now what's now that the
the military is no longer an option for
you what's what's the way you want to
leave this world a better place nowadays
I just uh wrote a book on my dog and
ordinary dog so Cairo you're on the bin
Laden Mission some things came out they
weren't exactly accurate so now he has a
book that everything's accurate it's a
big piece of History so I go out and
promote that and I do
I teach I teach law enforcement when I
can I have a lot of things that I can
pass along that might help those guys
out so if I can I love to do that I'm
getting into real estate
so I do that I try to do some public
speaking here and there
and I just I want to raise a family just
work on me I do a lot of working on me
yeah honestly like yeah I just want to
invest into real estate so I have
mailbox money to do
what I want to do I want to go hunting
fish and dive and raise a family but
yeah I'm all over the place these days
sounds good to me I like to give back
with foundations to the uh
it's obviously a big part of it I work
with different foundations that uh I
mean there's there's seals that are
killing themselves which
doesn't really make sense to me seals
don't quit and uh they just I knew I
know where I was none of that I stuck a
gun in my mouth but I was I was killing
myself with alcohol I was just I was
gonna die eventually you know I was in
my early 30s I didn't have much longer
I'm sure
so I try to work with foundations yeah
I'm curious about that piece right there
about seals don't quit and you you know
you were saying that you know ego was
something that was getting in the way at
a time and a phrase or a belief like
seals don't quit sounds to me like an
easy way to abuse oneself if you feel
like quitting but seals don't quit and
you're a seal and your identity is built
upon being a seal how does it impact you
when you feel like quitting and you're
drinking yourself to death
and that also conflicts with your
identity there are certain times you do
have to let go
[Laughter]
you know that for sure
but yeah yeah but not quoting the
drinking is definitely not not
beneficial not quitting certain aspects
of the lifestyle sometimes you just have
to let go
this might be a weird question but it
Dawns on me that there's a way in which
like that humility it you said about to
the team that you had to like you
weren't going to work if it wasn't the
team there was no Chuck norrises and
there's a certain kind of letting go
into the team in that right where it's
like you give up
certain autonomy certain kind of a
belief in itself and you give to the
belief in the team and then there's the
secondary one where in this treatment
where you kind of like let go you
describe it as letting go it's almost
like a surrender to God or something to
that effect I wonder how are those two
things in your body and the way you
think about them the same or different
letting go and being part of a team
letting go into the team or letting go
into
God surrender
into being yourself again like in both
cases you describe them as letting go or
yeah surrender letting go into the team
it was for something bigger than myself
and then letting go and then he was
letting go in the second part it was
obviously something bigger than myself
as well so letting go into the team to
work together to accomplish a mission
that's going to save somebody's life or
get rid of bad people that are going to
hurt innocent people that's letting go
into a team to accomplish a bigger
picture a bigger purpose and I was all
about it like what am I going to do go
back to the trailer park and do drugs or
be part of this team where I can
actually benefit Humanity hopefully
same thing letting go into a higher
power higher purpose and so
sometimes you just have to what would
you have to say to somebody who whether
they believe their brain is broken from
birth or that they've got
you know they've got add or they've got
you know they're on the Spectrum or they
had a car accident somebody who feels
like they are physically incapable in
ways that they didn't feel like they
used to be what would you have to say to
them about joining you in the journey
through to recovery first things just
don't quit obviously that's very
important
um I know it can be frustrating but
so one of the things I tell myself these
days is it'll pass like
and that's a hard thing to see in my bad
days like I do not think that
I'm like yes it will it will pass like
this won't last forever
and to be open-minded right don't let
your ego get in the way of you trying
something that you think is stupid like
you hear of essential oils or something
you're like yeah I'm not trying that
hippie stuff or something like breathing
like yeah sure I breathe every day maybe
maybe have an open mind
don't give up and even though you're
going through a hard time like you can
get through it it will pass eventually
but you you do need to put in the work
to get past it you can't just sit there
and
I mean you're going to have to suffer
through it but you definitely need to
get the work put in the work to get
yourself out of the hole for sure then
it's not going to be easy but nothing in
life worth doing is usually easy
so just don't give up
and it sucks I say that not not lightly
not lightly at all because I can say it
even though I'm in a good place right
now I
I think about it all the time like if it
comes you're gonna have your bad days
and they're gonna come
to be as prepared as possible now for
those bad days that are going to come
because death is a thing you know your
family's gonna pass away they're going
to be bad days you're going to lose the
things that you love or something's
going to happen to you you get in a car
wreck today tomorrow it can happen in a
heartbeat
to get through those times to put in the
work now to when those Hard Times come
it won't be so hard to get through those
hard times I noticed that when you say
that you know sometimes it sucks I see
an authentic smile on your face and
acceptance yeah I feel like a absence of
resistance to the suck in you the way
that you say it and that seems important
here bring it on it sucks when my
brain's not working to get to think my
way through certain shitty situations
but still it's like a I don't want
anything bad to happen but if it does
happen just get through it the best I
can
like Jordan Peterson says you want to be
the strongest person at your father's
funeral right so put in the work now
I know what's going to come so it's just
a problem that I'm gonna have to figure
out because life's not over it seems
like you have learned some tools that
can support a whole bunch of other
people in the military I mean to try to
change the VA hospital I mean that's I
know people who've been involved I know
people who worked for it and know but
there is like the seals do a lot of
stuff to there's a lot of stuff that
they do that is
unique in their support of their people
is there any inclination in you to to
figure out how to bring some of this
stuff to to the sales organization so
that they can support their people so
that the next guy who's highly trained
who loves his work doesn't have to have
a doesn't have to have hate in his heart
you know so the next guy can learn some
empathy and and get over that stress and
not have the hair fall off so they can
continue to do what they love it's
definitely very important to me I think
doing things like this the podcast and
talking about it and not only in the
military Community the law enforcement
first responder I mean anybody can use
it life's hard man yeah life's great but
life can be hard so I mean I do this and
I hope with a lot of charity foundations
when I can
just to bring attention to them I'll go
to the events and speak and meet with
veterans but I think doing things like
this to where anybody can listen
is also very beneficial yeah awesome
thank you will thanks well thanks for
coming on of course thanks for having me
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]
foreign